-LRB- CNN -RRB- -- This week , we pulled the cotton from our ears and emerged from our dark caves of seclusion to open this here column up to user-submitted questions .

Some submissions were inanely obvious -LRB- no , do n't tweet that picture of your boss , I do n't care if he told you about his chinchilla fetish at happy hour the other week -RRB- , some were boring beyond belief , and , many , oddly , were just plain stalkerish . But not in the way you might think .

In the past , we 've covered the topic of how to deal with online stalkers when the attention is unwanted . But more and more , as gaining access to anyone on this rapidly rotting Earth of ours is easier than ever , we Web denizens are wondering : Does using the Internet to check someone out make me a stalker ?

Chances are , probably not . Read on for a couple of queries on this issue :

`` When I was waiting for the bus the other day , I evaluated the attractiveness of all the people at the stop ; there was one obvious winner . Then the seat next to him was the only seat open . Upon sitting down , he immediately engaged me in very adorable and flirty conversation . We exchanged names and we both talked about what we were studying at school , but I did n't have an opportunity to give him my number .

`` Anyway , with his name and major , I was able to find him after only 30 seconds of Googling . I want to contact him but I 'm not sure how . Especially because it would be like , ` Hey , I stalked you a tiny bit to find your full name . ' My question is : What 's the appropriate -LRB- read as LEAST CREEPY -RRB- way to contact this person and what should I say in a message ? '' - Creepy Crushing in Chicago

I 'm going ahead and assume -LRB- for the sake of brevity -RRB- that you are not an insane stalkery-type person who collects the hair and toenails of her crushes , which she then uses to construct elaborate shrines to their beautiful -LRB- soon-to-be-departed -RRB- souls . If you are such a person , please cease reading , and , uh , please do n't hurt me .

Moving on : It seems like in your case , you do n't have that many degrees of separation between you and your bus boy . You attend the same school , take public transportation -LRB- i.e. you 're poor -RRB- and are not , in fact , Luddites . In this case , I say : Be bold . You found him on Google , you say ? If you found his Facebook profile -LRB- and not some old swim-meet records from middle school -RRB- , go ahead and send him a brief message -LRB- `` Hope your meeting on the downtown campus went off without a hitch ! '' -RRB- and a friend request .

Such a method is nice and private -- tweeting `` Hey ! You 're freaking hot '' might be a little embarrassing -- and if he does n't respond , you can always chalk it up to the fact that Facebook is cutting down on notification e-mails . Our lives are public nowadays , and if homeboy did n't want to be found , well , then he could always limit his visibility on the site .

-LRB- If his profile is indeed hidden but you tracked down his e-mail address , follow a similar tack . Unless , that is , his e-mail address was hidden on page 38 of Google results at the end of an article he wrote freshman year about the campus parade-and-circus club . In that case , give up . -RRB-

Furthermore , it 's not like the phenomenon of searching out star-crossed potential lovers is anything new -LRB- that 's what Missed Connections et al are for -RRB- , so we 're guessing your dude will be flattered at the very least that you sought him out . And hey , maybe now you can meet up and compare hair-and-toenail shrines . < 3

`` Through some Facebook stalking , I recently discovered my ex had gotten married . -LRB- We 're no longer FB friends -RRB- . Although that was a shock for sure , the real heartbreaker was that all my friends -LRB- who are still FB friends with her -RRB- did n't disclose any of this information to me . ... Not even the engagement ! How do I tell them they 're backstabbers without admitting I 'm a stalker ? '' - Backstabbed in BK

First of all , Backstabbed , it does n't really seem like you have been , in fact , backstabbed . You 're not Facebook friends with your ex anymore , you say ? If you refer to our column on how to deal with breakups online , we recommend unfriending exes after particularly painful breakups , which is exactly what you have done -LRB- congrats on your reading-comprehension skills -RRB- .

The fact that you unfriended this girl indicates you do n't want her in your life -- and do n't want your life in hers -- so we can see why your friends did n't call you immediately after she decided to tie the knot .

Still , we get that this is information you would rather get from a friendly face than from a half-sloshed night of Facebook stalking , sandwiched between , `` Oh , Laurie has a new baby . ... It 's hideous ! '' and `` Joel went to prison again . ''

If you want to call up your pals and -- rationally -- explain that you would rather they not hide your ex 's huge life moments from your sensitive -LRB- yet manly -RRB- gaze , go ahead and do it . Just explain that you were idly clicking through Facebook after a few too many mojitos and decided to check up on a few of your exes . Your friends will understand , because they are likely stalking their exes as we speak .

Stalking exes on Facebook is basically akin to a distasteful bodily function : We all do it , but no one goes around bragging about it in mixed company .

@highlight

Our Netiquette columnists answer users ' questions about stalking on the Web

@highlight

Is it OK to admit to your mutual friends that you searched for your ex on Facebook ?

@highlight

How do you approach the cutie you met in person once you find him/her on the Web ?