-LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Spin-bowler Monty Panesar has earned a recall to England 's Test cricket squad for the Ashes series against Australia , due to begin on November 25 in Brisbane .

Panesar , who was part of England 's victorious Ashes team in 2009 , is named in a 16-strong party after enjoying a successful domestic campaign for Sussex , in the English county championship .

Another player making his England return is Chris Tremlett , who has not played for his country since a match with India in 2007 , and was last involved with the international squad on a tour of New Zealand in 2008 .

He gets the nod ahead of Yorkshire 's Tim Bresnan , who has been an ever-present in England squads this summer .

The other contentious position was the deputy wicketkeeper spot with uncapped Steven Davies preferred to Craig Kieswetter , who struggled with the bat for his county Somerset this season .

Kevin Pietersen , who was left out of England 's one-day international squad for the latest series to gain match practice , is also included in a party captained by Andrew Strauss .

England and Wales Cricket board -LRB- ECB -RRB- national selector Geoff Miller is confident they have selected a competitive squad for the series , saying in an official statement : `` We believe we 've selected an outstanding Test squad for what will be a fiercely contested Ashes series in Australia .

Miller also commented on the two returning bowlers , saying they both deserved their opportunities in Australia .

`` We feel that following an excellent season with Sussex Monty Panesar deserves his opportunity to assume the role as England 's second spinner behind Graeme Swann , '' said Miller .

`` We feel that Chris Tremlett 's inclusion will add a real threat of pace and bounce to our bowling attack given the conditions in Australia . ''

Strauss is quietly confident that his team can retain the Ashes which they won back in a tight series last summer .

`` I am excited by the Test squad we have selected for the upcoming Ashes series as I firmly believe we have a number of match winners across all areas of the squad , '' he said .

`` It 's exciting to have the Ashes as our sole focus from this point on and I know every member of this Ashes squad will be relishing the challenge of retaining the Ashes in Australia .

`` To captain England in an Ashes series Down Under is a huge honor and something I am looking forward to with enormous anticipation . ''

England Ashes Test squad : Andrew Strauss -LRB- C -RRB- -LRB- Middlesex -RRB- Alastair Cook -LRB- VC -RRB- -LRB- Essex -RRB- James Anderson -LRB- Lancashire -RRB- Ian Bell -LRB- Warwickshire -RRB- Tim Bresnan -LRB- Yorkshire -RRB- Stuart Broad -LRB- Nottinghamshire -RRB- Paul Collingwood -LRB- Durham -RRB- Steven Davies -LRB- wk -RRB- -LRB- Surrey -RRB- Steven Finn -LRB- Middlesex -RRB- Eoin Morgan -LRB- Middlesex -RRB- Monty Panesar -LRB- Sussex -RRB- Kevin Pietersen -LRB- Hampshire -RRB- Matt Prior -LRB- wk -RRB- Sussex -RRB- Graeme Swann -LRB- Nottinghamshire -RRB- Chris Tremlett -LRB- Surrey -RRB- Jonathan Trott -LRB- Warwickshire -RRB-

@highlight

Monty Panesar has been recalled to England 's cricket squad for the Ashes against Australia

@highlight

Chris Tremlett has also been selected for the southern hemisphere tour

@highlight

Andrew Strauss : `` To captain England in an Ashes series Down Under is a huge honor ''