-LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Michel Platini has positioned himself for a future tilt at the FIFA presidency by claiming that world soccer 's ruling body needs to be run by sporting specialists rather than administrators such as the incumbent Sepp Blatter .

Platini , one of France 's greatest players , has backed the 75-year-old Blatter to be re-elected next week if he is not found guilty of corruption at a hearing on Sunday .

`` Of course I support him . But we will see . If these allegations are proved , I ca n't support him anymore , '' he told CNN World Sport 's Pedro Pinto on Saturday .

`` I do n't know what the disciplinary will say . But I will support him . ''

FIFA includes Blatter in bribery probe

Platini , also a FIFA vice-president as well as being head of European football at UEFA , said the ruling body needed to follow the example of the International Olympic Committee .

`` I think that FIFA is like the IOC was some years ago , I think we are at the end of a system based on politics , '' the 55-year-old said .

`` The future of this big international sports company is owned by people who are specialists -- not political people like you have Mr. Juan Antonio Samaranch in the IOC , Mr. Havelange , Mr. Blatter who comes from politics , and you have many companies like that in sport .

`` I think it will finish in the next few years and we will have people from the sport . I think FIFA has to come back to football . ''

FIFA to investigate new bribery allegations

Blatter 's bid for a fourth and final term is in doubt after the Swiss was summoned to a hearing by the FIFA ethics committee following a request by his only opponent at the June 1 election , Mohamed Bin Hammam .

Bin Hammam himself faces an investigation along with FIFA vice-president Jack Warner after a report by colleague Chuck Blazer indicated they had offered cash payments to delegates at a Caribbean Football Union meeting this month in return for voting for the Qatari on Wednesday .

Bin Hammam , head of the Asian Football Confederation , claimed that Blatter would have known about any such payments and therefore should have reported them himself .

There have also been claims that Qatar bribed voters to win the right to host the 2022 World Cup last December , which Hammam also denied .

Platini said he was surprised that the probe will happen before the election .

`` I do n't understand why you ca n't do the election quietly and then you open the case . I know you can say everything , but you need evidence and I have no evidence or nothing , '' he said .

`` We will wait for what the disciplinary committee says and then I do n't know what will happen . And I 'm like you -- I do n't know any more . I 'm the vice-president of FIFA but I do n't know more what will happen . ''

@highlight

European football chief Michel Platini says FIFA needs to be run by sports specialists

@highlight

Former France international says time of administrators is coming to an end

@highlight

Platini will back Sepp Blatter for re-election at FIFA unless president is guilty of corruption

@highlight

Blatter faces hearing on Sunday along with his only opponent , Mohamed Bin Hammam